thank you and
want to welcome you to the enterprise IT
track of apples 2003 Worldwide Developer
Conference today what we'd like to do is
review what Apple our customers and you
are developers have been doing with
apple and the enterprise over the last
12 months we also have a special guest
Tom Yeager from infoworld who's going to
give us his perspective on Apple and the
enterprise and finally we're going to
get a sneak preview of Apple OS ken
Panther for servers so let's get right
into it a little background first aighty
technology decisions are made today in a
very difficult environment and any of
you involved in IT I'm sure realize this
the IT managers are being asked to do
more with less licensing costs seem to
keep rising maintenance costs seem to
keep rising the only thing that doesn't
seem to rise very much as the economy
these days and in this challenging
environment one of the key decisions
being faced by IT managers is the
following dilemma everyone would like to
have the flexibility the low-cost the
freedom to choose vendors the freedom to
choose the right tool for the job that
you get by basing your environment on
open standards multi-vendor and
heterogeneous solutions however this
comes with a cost because some assembly
is required putting together things in
your own shop takes time takes money and
so it's incredibly tempting for people
to go with a single vendor solution
where that single vendor will integrate
things make it reliable hopefully and
the downside of that is that you lose
flexibility and you lose some potential
cost savings and these days cost savings
our pants amount now over the last five
or so years open source based solutions
are increasingly seen as an alternative
to the status quo just writing your
check to your vendor every year now open
source by definition drives you to
environment with
open standards multi better vendor and
heterogeneity open source means that
you're going to spend some of your time
putting things together making sure that
they're managed properly installing them
you're dealing by definition with a
heterogeneous system the real challenge
here is to get those benefits of open
source without a huge cost now the
benefits are I think huge over the past
20 30 years software has been developed
in the same way that you know a few
minor changes that
world and this change is now noticed big
time by the IT industry why well number
one cost savings or i should say
perceived cost savings because the price
tag on open source seems great and we'll
come back to that issue number two by
its very nature by the development
process of open source open source tends
to be interoperable they tend to cube
very closely to open standards
apples
the various search alerts we can to
respond extremely quickly of those
things because the open source
underpinnings of Mac OS 10 another big
benefit is code reuse and code reuse
goes without suit without saying in the
open source world and as you all know
the best code and the most efficient
code is the code that you didn't have to
write and in the open source world the
ability to go and grab something from
one project and we use it in another
project is key and then finally a deep
talent pool you are leveraging with open
sores a talent pool of over over a
million programmers worldwide
contributing to various projects and in
fact there's increasing numbers of
people you could hire in your own IT
shops who know and love open source and
can manage that apache server pretty
much in their sleep so it's really a
myth that you can't find people to
manage these unix or open source
programs now over the last five years
saying five years that we've been
developing mac OS 10 open source has
virtually exploded and up on the screen
are just a few of the literally
thousands of projects out there if you
go to sourceforge and you do a search on
projects open source projects on
sourceforge for mac OS 10 today there
are over 1,300 projects there ranging
from huge projects to small projects but
really it's a testament to the activity
in this environment now the price tag
looks right for open source but it can
sometimes come with a hidden car and the
hidden cost is that there is some
assembly required and that means that
it's not always delivered with the
management tools with the vendor backing
with the integration out of the box that
you would like to have and so that
creates more work for you in a perfect
world what you would have is you would
have all of the benefits of open source
that we just talked about plus the
reliability and support that you get
from a major vendor plus ease of
deployment installations manage
etc all of the fit and finish things and
if you had all those together you would
achieve the Nirvana of lower total cost
of ownership well turns out that is
exactly our strategy with respect to
open source Mac OS 10 is based upon open
source now go into some more detail on
that Apple has complete support for open
standards and if you'll just take a look
inside the box you'll notice every
acronym known to man from ietf standards
w3c standards Apple is a company of
these days that live eat and breathe
standards but what Apple adds to this
equation is simplicity of deployment and
management and the backing and support
of a major vendor and so it's a
combination of those things together
that really provide our strategy and
it'll be a theme throughout this
presentation and what it does is we do
the work to let you leverage this huge
world of open source and it's not just
the open source we ship in the box
although there's an awful lot of that
and that's increasing every day as
you'll notice with panther but also the
ability to bring down open source from
the rest of the world and leverage back
so to download from darwin ports or from
think or from j random project out on
the web we support the api's and the
development tools so that all those
things are very easy to bring onto the
platform so this is our strategy
leverage open source not just in the
product but outside the box let you
leverage open source and what we add is
the fit and finish of a commercial
product the management tools the
installation tools everything so that
your total cost of ownership goes down
now this strategy is reflected in our
products it's reflected in our software
with mac OS 10 jaguar going to panther
is reflected in our hardware products
from laptops to xserve the xserve raid
and it's reflected in our service
offerings well service offerings we know
need to be different for the enterprise
this is area where we are investing and
will continue
to invest in the future so let's start
out by looking at software as was
mentioned this morning by thieves mac OS
can is unix based and it's not just any
unix it is industrial-strength bsd unix
together with CMU mock to provide a
highly responsive environment not just
for servers but also for clients a key
feature or a key thing to remember here
is that we use exactly the same source
code base when we build Mac os10 server
as we do Mac os10 Klein it's the same
kernel this is important because it make
sure we don't have to split our
engineering resources and as we fix bugs
or security issues in one product they
get automatically fixed in the other
product and to leverage each other and
it allows us to move very quickly to add
new features to the UNIX base of our
system now on top of this Apple has done
something that nobody else has been able
to do even though many people have tried
over the years which is on top of a
unix-based underpinning to add
state-of-the-art graphics frameworks and
user interface support on the client so
graphics as you heard this morning state
of the art support for OpenGL for PDF
based graphics for 2d graphics
frameworks from cocoa to carbon to Java
frameworks and then use the R interface
our killer aqua user interface and wait
till you get a chance to try expose I
love expose it's going to be a godsend
on the user interface now on top of
these frameworks Apple integrate in the
Box useful applications and we all know
and love there's a ton of applications
in there including the ilife
applications but what I want to focus on
are the end user applications that are
important to the enterprise in fact
they're critical to the enterprise their
end user applications that are mission
critical in any enterprise I Noah first
of all male so Apple has a great male
client just got a whole lot better in
answer integrates IMAP support pop
support can interact with any mail
server based on those two standards out
there starting with panther can support
ssl so we're taking the mail app forward
and will continue to support that
mission critical lapse in the enterprise
address book integrates with ldap and
more and more corporations are moving to
base their addresses and employee
information on ldap address book
accesses all that information seamlessly
Safari I just I want to spend a little
bit more time on safari because you
don't often think about it this way but
the web browser is actually a mission
critical application for the enterprise
these days as applications get deployed
to the desktop whether it be Oracle or
PeopleSoft or other applications the
browser is actually often the front end
of those applications now to me the
exciting thing is this in the past when
we worked with enterprise software
developers like Oracle or like people
saw that they would come to us and say
well this doesn't work quite right on
internet explorer or on Netscape and we
would sort of look at them and say well
yeah we wish that would work better too
it's a totally different ball game now
with Safari Safari is based on open
source project HTML we take that
in-house we add all the safari
underpinnings around that that is
totally under our control now to make it
the best and fastest browser on the mac
and the conversations now that we have
enterprise software developers like
PeopleSoft and oracle are totally
different because when they come to us
and say we'd like to make sure that
peoplesoft works really great with the
Safari we say great no problem we're
going to fix Afari to work the best it
can possibly work with PeopleSoft and
you have peoplesoft now announcing
they're going to qualify on Safari so
the world for enterprise browsers on the
Mac just got a whole lot better with
Safari Java of course Apple is
recognized for having the best client
implementation of Java standard edition
out there not just by us but by others
in the industry including sunlight
Systems Java is the application language
of choice for many places in the
enterprise today not just on the client
foot on the server as well and last but
not least that key mission-critical
client-side application which is
microsoft office and the mac business
unit continues to work continues to
invest in microsoft office that will you
know it's very interesting because we
are the only unix based system out there
that also runs microsoft office one of
the things that this was done for us is
that anybody who needs to run unix for
whatever reason in the past they would
typically have a pc sitting right next
to it because they also had to run
microsoft office with the mac those two
systems collapsed into one and that's a
major place we're making inroads in the
enterprise so let's shift gears for a
bit to Mac os10 server Jaguar Mac os10
server packages a just a ton of services
that can run on any server installation
in the enterprise and has those key
services that are important to the
enterprise well just go through a few of
those in the Arab security we run
Kerberos I'm going to go into a lot more
detail later on Kerberos but Kerberos is
key to single sign-on let's just please
out there for now come back to it
directory of course almost any
enterprise today has a ldap directory
server either LDAP or Active Directory
which is really kind of a flavor of ldap
web services we have apache which is the
leading web server on the planet
supporting HTTP and all the modules that
you would want to support things like
soap and xml RPC and things like that
male a very nice mail server sporting
i'm at pop and webmail file service
every file service no one demand from
AFP to SMB with samba to NFS to ftp
print service with cup sprint serving
internet printing protocol
PR which UNIX people know and love
appletalk printing and finally last but
not least secure shell log and remote
logging with ssh now an important issue
here is that apple doesn't just take all
of you know these are mostly open source
projects so we have leveraged them into
the product but we don't just take the
project and toss them onto the CD and
ship them to you we actually spend a lot
of time integrating them making sure
they perform well making sure that
they're qaid making sure that our
management tools can manage all these
things so that's that's the major
advantage of getting this from Apple
versus just trying to assemble your own
out on the web on something like Linux
now to do this we provide management
tools we provide GUI management tools
for remote management of all the
services you saw on the last slide in
doing so we also make sure that we
continue to support terminal based or
command line tool management because
there are many people out there that
still like to manage things that way so
we don't disable the opera ranch of
managing all these services you can take
your pick choose whatever works best for
you we also support SNMP for our
products so that the tools from other
major management vendors such as Tivoli
HP with open view or CA those projects
are enabled to management to SNMP
aspects of our products so we have
really complete management solution and
I'll talk a bit after Tom speaks in in
some of the very exciting directions
we're going to be taking that tools for
the enterprise a complete set of tools
for almost every kind of application
you'd like to develop here we show
webobjects we include mysql in the box
for database java course is on our
server you can have java from us you can
also get third-party products like j
boston and use them to develop ejb
applications
tomcat for javaserver pages have been of
course apache world-class web server so
no matter what kind of a developer you
are you're going to find tools and the
session right after this will give some
of the java tools an overview for some
of the java tools but we've got j2se
jboss is a third-party product web
applications safari j box webobjects
apache tomcat scripting every scripting
language known to man and then some are
on the box so Apple script Ruby tickle
PHP Perl tcsh so if you like scripting
you'll like feel like you'll died and
gone to heaven and scripting is really
the backbone of many IT shops so that's
a very important thing we're doing for
the enterprise and just making sure all
of those scripting languages run
seamlessly out of the box for open
source developers now traditionally open
source is developed with some very
vanilla tools the new tool chain so GCC
gdb etc often these projects are
maintained in CVS what we've done is
with Xcode we're really wrapping around
those good new tools so you can develop
your open source projects with Xcode and
gain all the advantages of an integrated
development environment but still stick
to the tools that are tried and true in
the open source community gdb GCC etc
then finally for commercial developers
which a lot of you are Coco carbon Xcode
as the IDE Java Web objects MySQL so
what you end up with is really a killer
developer box there are people I've
talked to who you know make their living
doing consulting writing applications
they fly around on the plane they
develop java application in their seat
on their tie book when they get off the
plane they install it on a weblogic ejb
server and they're off and running so
killer box for development talk a bit
about hardware now we have X serve an
xserve raid talk a bit about extra first
excerpt is
an extremely cost-effective 1u server is
highly optimized for I'm part of the
market is very close to us which is the
entertainment industry and the biotech
industry in the entertainment industry
pana mountain that industry is IO
throughput so what you'll find on xserve
is a huge focus on ins and outs to the
box so dual Gigabit Ethernet built-in
dual port 800 firewire built-in optional
optical connect to your disc drive just
huge torrents of bits coming in and out
of the of the server x-rayed partners
with that by providing world-class
storage RAID storage xserve RAID storage
but at a price that really changed the
industry the price per per megabyte is
under a half penny per megabyte so a
gigabyte for like four dollars and
thirty cents or something like that you
can get 12 and a half terabytes for I
think it's ten nine nine nine ten
thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine
dollars and I don't know what you're
going to do with two-and-a-half terabyte
so we have customers that are definitely
doing it if you downloaded every every
song from the itunes music store that
would be about a terabyte so there's a
good use for it all of these servers
remotely manageable through remote
management tools so again Apple putting
the fit and finish and the management
together with these things so that your
total cost of ownership and deployment
goes down finally applecare and as I
mentioned there's a special version of
applecare that is specifically for the
servers and aimed at the enterprise and
this is an area continued investment for
Apple let's talk a bit about some of our
enterprise partners that have come
online over the past 12 12 months or so
today we have some great announcements
from partners Oracle has announced that
the next you know nine I was such a hit
that they have announced the next
version of the oracle database server is
going to be targeted at the max they're
going to do a mac version including rack
support rack for those of you know is
they're clustered oracle server so this
is going to be a killer box extremely
cost effective let's see we also have
announcements from business objects and
web methods and I anywhere take a look
at your packs and you'll see some very
key announcements of support for Safari
targeting Mac OS server with their
products so we expect continued momentum
in this area if you look over the past
12 months we've had announcements and
and progress from all of these partners
I want to just mention one enterprise
partner that I think is key which is
Microsoft and as was announced
previously Microsoft is hard at work in
their business unit working on microsoft
exchange support for the mac and this is
on track with exchange support in
entourage you're going to be able to
hook up to an exchange server do all of
your email to all of your scheduling do
all your address book sure so for those
enterprises where you absolutely must be
on an exchange server we have we will
have from microsoft complete support
there and the mac business unit there is
really excited about it and so are we
because as you probably know this is a
big request from a lot of our customers
let's talk about customers we sell into
several enterprise markets today
entertainment is a huge one for us the
entertainment history has need for huge
storage huge bandwidth requirements as i
mentioned life sciences was really a
sleeper but it has really exploded over
the last year or so a couple reasons for
this one is that they can really benefit
from the clustering of max of one you
mac servers and there's a lot of
clustering activity going on because
they have massive databases to search
with a human genome and being able to
cluster systems to do that in parallel
is just fitting like a glove with
biotech
we do that really well another big
reason why biotech and life sciences
have taken off is because many of those
applications were developed as open
source projects so guess what when OS 10
came out those open source projects just
gravitated immediately to OS 10 and the
porting of those things was fairly
trivial they all showed up life sciences
has taken to Mac OS 10 and our products
like a fish to water higher education
has always been strong for us now with
121 ratios of Max or pcs to students
these really face all their enterprise
challenges faced by an IT manager are
the same as the one space and
universities and higher education so a
lot of the products we're talking about
a very appropriate to that market and
last but not least government
government's always been fairly strong
for us it is with mac OS 10 being
unix-based be highly secure the open
source-based it's just taking off like a
rocket and government of course the
ultimate mis shop and they are very
picky and we are pleased to be able to
sell a great product into that market
now one market that is fairly new for us
and then I'll just delve into a little
bit is financial services and this is an
emerging market for us it's not been
strong in the past but with our server
products in Mac OS 10 I this has a lot
of promise for us well just give you one
example and that's risk wise risk wise
is a company that manages credit risk
and what they do is they have huge
databases of your mind everybody's
credit card transactions and they
attempt to determine from that database
what your likelihood is of paying your
next monthly statement very interesting
business in order to do this they have
to do it real time so they have 190
xserve systems and growing very rapidly
they have 15 xserve raid systems storing
everybody's credit card information they
do over a million transaction process
every day five nines availabilities an
absolute must
and low entry cost and ease of use of
using Apple give risk wise the
competitive advantage and here's what
they say they can do transaction
processing for a fraction of the cost of
most credit bureaus with an apple
solution they are pleased as punch with
this solution and the surprising thing
to some people who don't know what we've
been doing with Jaguar and UNIX etc is
they achieve their five nines up time
this system just keeps running it does
not go down if it did their business
would take so they place the big bet on
us and guess what we can come through
with flying colors another example I'll
delve into is in the life sciences
market this is University of North
Carolina Chapel Hill and they have a
program they're in what's called proton
omics you've probably heard of genomics
where you study the genome at DNA and
the human genome proteomics takes it one
step further they take a cell and find
all of the protein fragments in that
cell and then they match up those
protein fragments against the entire
three billion base fare base pairs in
the human genome obviously that takes a
lot of processing power so what they've
set up they have a 42 xserve cluster
running they do queries on thousands of
protein simultaneously and the results
are delivered in minutes this is used
for both diagnosis as well as for drug
discovery so one of the things that
brought them to the platform with the
incredibly simple cluster management
administration which lowers their total
cost of ownership and here's what they
say they want a plug-and-play solution
that was cost-effective in yet convenor
computing news so it's interesting to
see plug-and-play applied to clustered
servers that's the place where xserve an
apple fits well especially with their
new cluster nodes so another example of
very large scale computing done with the
products that we put together now I'd
like to introduce Tom Yeager our special
guest speaker now Tom comes with a
background of over 12 25 years in the IT
industry
he started out as a programmer
progressed through the ranks became a
CIO and over the course of that
published three books and hundreds of
articles and he ended up going to
infoworld where he brought his
experience with with IT and I key
management and he maintains a very close
tie to the IT world what he's going to
do is give us his perspective on Apple
in the enterprise so tomm welcome I'll
tell you it was worth sitting on a three
hour flight here from Dallas Fort Worth
just to listen to the keynote this
morning that's always true at Apple
conferences and I love to see how Apple
dropkicks the rumor rags consistently
every time it throws one of these events
a lot of fun i started my IT career back
in 1979 I was hacking pdp-11 white hat
and I'm fully rehabilitated and I was
also writing business software for the
z80 microcomputer using assembly
language so you Coco and objective-c
people don't know the meaning of the
word hardcore as far as I'm concerned
now I spent my career doing doing that
and in 1982 something happened that
changed my life I received the shipment
of a machine called the model 16 he was
made by radio shack and it was running a
little operating system I'd never seen
before called xenyx xenyx is made by an
obscure little company called Microsoft
and it was at the time of its
introduction the first microprocessor
unix
and I immediately fell in love with it I
wanted to do the scripting I wanted to
do this to the time sharing i loved the
C programming language so I bought into
it completely and that started my
20-year Odyssey with UNIX now in the
early 90s an interesting thing happened
while I was in the interim between xenyx
and this development of us talk about I
went through several flavors of UNIX and
settled on one that was my absolute
favorite which is bsd and if you talk to
anybody who is truly in unix it will
tell you that bsd is the true unix i'll
talk about the history of system five a
little bit because that happened but in
the early 90s while i was having this
love affair with unix I'm ebsd I saw a
machine that just blew me away and it
was a little magnesium cube called the
next running operating system called
next step and unfortunately the market
didn't grasp it and went away pretty
quickly but it set all kinds of new
standards it had a postscript user
interface it had an object-oriented
programming language it had bsd which
you know how i feel about that running
on top of mach which I also thought was
very cool and i figured it's a real
shame that next didn't make it because I
wanted all those things together in one
machine now on the system five side that
were interesting goings-on as well AT&T
had licensed system five to eleven
different companies who wound up selling
it for the pc and it started out cheap
and it started out rich i think it was
I think the SEO distribution was
something like 25 floppies and then it
began to deteriorate each of the 11
vendors started creating proprietary
versions of it and they couldn't get
together they really want to get
together and make this thing
interoperate so it degenerated to the
point where these vendors start going
out of business very rapidly the 11
licenses shrunk to four there are now
four companies in the commercial unix
space plus apple and none of those four
companies are the original 11 licensees
of system 5 which gives you perspective
of how things how quickly and and deeply
things fell apart and last bit of our
little history lesson is what wiped out
microcomputer UNIX in 1995 microsoft
introduced Windows NT 40 and in 1996
microsoft introduced some free software
called the windows nt4 option pack
Microsoft had learned the lesson with
Internet Explorer that the best way to
get customers is to give wonderful
software away and with the NT 4 option
pack Microsoft drove right through UNIX
by giving customers back all the things
that the UNIX fenders had taken away so
all the other price features like
guaranteed messaging and tragic
transactions on database management and
web applications they were in and T and
you couldn't find them in any unix it's
a bit of a drag but i have to give
Microsoft credit they really did a
fabulous job on NT for now
consolidation trend was obviously
already underway UNIX the UNIX market
had consolidated most of microcomputers
were pulled into Windows operating
systems and the the trend that was that
was underway in the 90s really went into
overdrive when we hit 2000 we had
vendors doing really weird things they
were buying each other they were suing
each other they were consolidating their
own product lines look at what HP did to
its processors they killed alpha was
probably the best cpu ever made they
killed pa-risc and now everything they
do is on Itanium to Microsoft took the
wonderful array of processors it
supported for Windows NT and killed them
all except for x86 so the consolidation
was limiting more and more the choices
that enterprises had in micro computer
systems all along we also had a trend of
commoditization and that's an easy one
to describe the commoditization is the
practice of a vendor deciding that all
they have to do is wait for everybody
else to develop technology then find a
way to make it with cheaper plastic and
then sell it back to the market for a
dollar less than the other one and this
cycle keeps wrapping around until I t
just says I'm not going to buy this
anymore when we got into 2002 2003 IT
said we're done I don't see any reason
to buy a pentium 4 dust cup when my
pentium 3 is handling my workload why
should I pay a thousand dollars more for
a dual xeon rak rak machine when a dual
pentium 3 goes for 999 dollars it runs
cooler and quieter aighty was making
decision
based on criteria that had never been
present before and i'll get to those in
a minute Apple jumped in to the market
in the early 2000s I don't think most I
don't think was on the radar for most
people they were behind the scenes
developing rat city and the early
versions of OS 10 when the powerbook
first hit it was amazing when the
gigahertz powerbook in 15 inch titanium
powerbook hit it destroyed the market
for high-end PC notebooks what had up to
that date been sold as portable
workstations and I carried these things
routinely because I write code and I do
digital media work and I need that kind
of firepower I immediately hung up all
of my pcs the best of the PC nut looks
ahead and replace them all with one
machine that to this day I take
everywhere with me Apple declared this
the year of the notebook and they
carried the technology they had
introduced with a 15 inch powerbook to
the 17 inch and to the 12 inch and they
continued to take more and more share
away from pc vendors they also set
standards for portable computers that PC
vendors never managed to match which
remains true you look at things like
battery life gigabit ethernet wireless
networking which Apple pioneered an
apple still does better than anybody
else a gorgeous display with a 3d
accelerator built into it when I picked
up a powerbook for the first time aside
from its looks there are two things that
really grabbed me about it well three
things the first one is it ran bsd and
that just hooked me immediately the
second thing is what
sons james gosling the father of Java
told me he only he carries a powerbook
he does all his programming on a
powerbook now he loved the alien landing
beacon that blinks on and off when the
machine is in suspend mode and when I
asked him the single best feature tell
me the one thing that makes you carry
this machine everywhere you go he said
the lid works that is no small thing for
those of us who have been using Windows
for forever now we saw a powerbook
redefine its market we've seen xserve
redefine its market with price with ease
of management and now we see extra raid
redefining the market for networked
storage not only by bringing prices down
but by maintaining enterprise features
like redundant power supplies redundant
controllers remove the hot swappable
removable trays it's not an easy ride
for Apple though and we learned that
info world learned that when we started
running editorial on Apple's enterprise
efforts we have a lot of letters from
readers we got a lot of letters from PC
vendors a lot of screaming phone calls
from PC vendors who are telling us I
haven't heard this before i'm not sure i
buy it because I've been watching Apple
for 20 years and what you're telling me
about apple doesn't matter with my
version of the facts the first thing
they said is OS 10 is not mature look
how long windows has been on the market
look how long solaris has been on the
market this is a newcomer I don't trust
it remember what I said about the next
machine that was back in the early 90s
and it had these three things in it and
had BSD which takes back to nineteen
78 it has mock which dates back to 1985
and it has the next step ap is and
graphical user interfaces that date back
to nineteen eighty-eight I don't think
you can compare to that combination of
underpinnings for maturity hardware is
slow the supplied to some of the max
along time ago it certainly doesn't
apply to current hardware and the most
concise observation I've ever heard
about performance was uttered by sons
Greg papadopoulos he's their CTO and
all-around visionary and probably the
third smartest person I've ever met and
he said when you're talking about
performance and computers forget
megahertz it is all about throughput if
you can't get data from the cpu to
memory if you can't get data from memory
to storage it's all over it really
doesn't matter how fast your chip burn
cycles it's going to spend most of its
time waiting for i 0 actually more
expensive than pcs sure i mean most of
us remember the 2 FX and the quadra
series and they were just scary you had
to love the thing because you were going
to take out a second mortgage to pay for
it but with the current market if you
compare feature for feature what Mac
does with power books what Mac does at
what Apple does with its power mac
systems which don't get much attention
it shows like this but thank goodness
you know they did the keynote with it
did patina today powermax are cool
powerful machines where can you find a
UNIX workstation anymore we saw the best
example of that technology this morning
it's just going to keep getting better
and on the xserve once again if you line
up features if you line up
overall power if you line up I owe
throughput capability forget it PCs
can't get there from here run enough
apps yeah all of us remember walking
through compusa and there were 12 aisles
windows software moves one lonely isle
of mac software and it was you know
games for two-thirds of it and then
eluting a little column of productivity
applications that's not true anymore I'm
not saying that we don't have some
distance to come there is still a gap
there is certainly more software
available for Windows PCs there is
certainly more open source software
avail available for Linux but if you
look at the richness of the software
available for the BSD operating system
now easy it is to port to OS 10 and if
you look at just what Apple throws into
the box they put more good software into
the operating system that you know right
when you pull out your powerbook or when
you set up your xserve there is more
good code in there more useful services
and applications then most people go out
and buy when they get a copy of windows
or when they get a copy of Linux so I
know I really don't think there is a
question anymore about apps and as far
as I'm concerned the pace of new
development is just staggering so when I
say there's more to come I don't think
it's going to take long to play that out
I have some observations from watching
the market in general that relate to the
state of the market that Apple is
playing in IT in general it's been hard
to figure out what they want i remember
i've got a close friend in marketing at
microsoft we went out to dinner and we
had a couple glasses of wine and then we
got a bottle of wine and then we got
another bottle of wine and when we were
done and we're
in the cab going back to the hotel he
said you know that Microsoft would just
love to give customers what they want
and I said that's that's really great
i'm glad that's so and then in utter
frustration he looked at me and said so
what the hell do customers want because
you couldn't nail it down it was a list
this long and it was a different list
for every vertical market and for every
line of business and every little
segment but now thanks for the recession
thanks to itd getting tired of having no
innovation we come down to some very
simple set of requirements I want rapid
payback which doesn't mean I can take
IBM Global Services and give these guys
in suits and briefcases eight years to
bang on enterprise integration I want
solutions that work when I pull them out
of the box and I want payback in six
months if you can't give it to me I'm
not going to talk to you I want
miniscule long-term costs of ownership I
don't want to have to maintain a crew of
wizards to keep my stuff running zero
lock in don't tell me I can never leave
this platform don't tell me that this
architecture you built this machine with
doesn't run anywhere else not acceptable
purposeful innovation isn't about bells
and whistles there's lots of cute stuff
on Apple machines I have I have
disagreements with the people at Apple
about the blinky lights on the xserve
Apple has been criticized in the past
for not putting any lights on its
machine I remember one of their servers
that had a completely blank front panel
except for one little light for power
and now of course they've i would say
they've overcorrected a bit
now the best summary of these
requirements came to me from a gentleman
named Winston bumpus that's the coolest
name and he works at Novell and he's you
know he's probably the fourth smartest
person I've ever met and he says the
only reason to buy something is it makes
you money it saves you money or it's
required by the government and I thought
thank God I mean I can throw away my 30
page summary of IT requirements and just
replace it with that I thought it was
sweet and I really do think it's it
describes reality most of you know how
well Apple has done to adapt to these
simpler and far more demanding
requirements apples execution it's its
ability to take these requirements and
turn them into products has been
fabulous that's because the execution is
based on customer feedback it's based on
the anticipation of customer needs and
when the powerbook came out didn't you
think it was serious overkill for a
portable machine who on earth wanted to
carry gigabit ethernet around with them
on a notebook and of course now we
actually use it that we now that we can
get a gigabit ethernet switch for 80
bucks and Apple put in the box very
quick deployment will get an
out-of-the-box experience the notebooks
work immediately xserve walks you
through the initial configuration xserve
raid when I saw that demoed I just about
fell out of my chair it was so easy to
set up it was so easy to use and it was
so resilient we were walking around back
and pulling out power supplies while it
was still running and yanking drives out
of the thing and shutting segments down
from the administrative tools in it just
kept yeah whatever that's what I want
I t wants solutions that are consistent
across the vendors product line and no
compromises I don't want machines that
make me make choices about what I can do
because the technology isn't capable of
it or because the vendor has decided to
impose choices on me I think that as we
watch how these trends are panning out
we see a couple of we see a couple of
things that will make sure that Apple
stays relevant in the enterprise IT
market and as we as we watch them as we
see apples technology march forward we
see that IT managers confidence in
Apple's place in the enterprise is
growing very rapidly this company that
had no footprint in the enterprise three
years ago look at where they are now
it's only going to get better then we
right now for financial stability for
just basic grasp of the market you know
we talk about Apple as a niche player we
talk about what percentage of the
overall computing market it owns who
cares look at its stability in its
coordination that owns graphics it owns
broadcasting it owns audio and video
production it absolutely owns ad
agencies education there nobody is going
to ever pry it out of those niches in
their work and awful lot and they're
developing online so fast I mean you
know they were talking about how many
songs had been downloaded by IP in the
itunes music service it's 99 cents of
song i've heard that service referred to
online as i crack
because once you get your first hit in
the near-term future I'm talking about
enterprise trust for Apple we see that
Apple is building its enterprise
presence in increments across its
product line notebooks wireless
networking airport extreme pic spot I
mean it really is the it really is
flat-out the finest the finest access
point in the whole world I lucked out
workstations but I shouldn't leave out
workstations that's a very important
segment scale-out entry servers that you
can cluster together that you can put in
very easy failover configurations Apple
has done that they've nailed it and with
ex serve raid they've put land storage
on the map for small to medium
businesses and for large businesses that
want to just stack it up and get
terabytes and terabytes for what they
used to pay for hundreds of megabytes
and in the long term the frontier of
computing is going to be convergence
we're going to see all of the ways we
use technology come together so that the
mobile devices in the youth market the
mobile devices that are used for
personal communication are going to leak
into businesses and the best way to
summarize apples long-term potential is
that Apple gets one point that I think
no other vendor gets and that is that
computers don't exist to connect to each
other they exist to connect people to
people and if you can't do that with
technology there is no reason for it to
exist
the people in this room the three
thousand or so other people who are
attending this show have I wouldn't call
it a responsibility but i would say that
when you look at OS 10 you look at what
Apple put into it and you look at what
Apple invested in their Hardware real
innovation so much money on R&D and
everybody here knows how good this
platform is we have to go to vendors and
say you have to put your software here
we have to go to show to the shops we
work for and say we need to get
development projects ramped up on this
platform this thing is going to take off
when we don't you know we really don't
want to be sitting at the back of the
room when this thing catches fire so I
think the catch phrase leaving this show
is going to vendors going to our bosses
insane call me what it runs an honest n
so thanks very much for your attention
I'm going to hand things back to bud
thank you
thanks a lot Tom for your for your
insights and point of view there now for
some fun stuff continuing in the theme
here of the idea that what Apple's
really doing is leveraging the world of
open source but making it so that the
bicycle comes assembled and you'll have
to stay up all night assembling it and
I'm going to talk about Panther and how
Panther is pushing this even even more
forward and I'll start out just
mentioning a few things about Panther on
on the client now a lot of time was
spent on that this morning but hidden in
the interspecies there were some
interesting things that were just kind
of glossed over that are actually really
key to deploying cancer in on the client
and the enterprise let's mention a few
of those they fall into two major
categories one is open standards
networking and the other is Microsoft
interoperability both things are key
importance the enterprise an open
standards networking NIS support in open
directory big deal NFS file locking also
a big deal wasn't there in Jaguar we
have it in cancer integrated ipv6 now
ipv6 sort of hobble along and Jaguar
it's totally baked in in Panther and as
the world you know finally catches up to
ipv6 Panthers already there 802 11 X
authentication for secure wireless
communication built in Kerberos mail
Kerberos enabled mail built in Kerberos
enabled AFP Kerberos enabled ftp SMB SSH
Kerberos everywhere very important tool
spend a little bit more time on that on
the server side long password support
x509certificate support so all of these
open standards all these enabled by the
way by us going out and integrating open
source projects into Mac os10 providing
the fit and finish providing the
management making sure it works out of
the box now Microsoft's interoperability
actually a little bit more challenging
but even there you can go and pick up
open source
help you along now Active Directory
Integration we have a plug-in that lets
you without changing the Active
Directory schema at all let's a mac OS
clients use Active Directory records to
be administered incredibly important
browse Steve mentioned these this
morning browse SMB servers in the finder
& SMB printing support both important
and what's called level two tunneling
protocols / IP sex-based VPN this is the
VPN standard that Microsoft and Cisco
have adopted we support that natively in
Panther as well on the client now
shifting gears to mac OS x server
Panther for short Panther server this is
a sneak preview and I wanted to kind of
go through some of the major things that
are in here now there's a lot of other
things fit and finish things that you
should definitely go there's a overview
section session for this there's also an
in-depth session for Panther server that
will cover things like there's all kinds
of stuff in there the support for jumbo
frames and tcp/ip so those of you who
know that for gigabit ethernet you
actually will absolutely want jumbo
frames support that's in there they
think I owe anybody doing database io
UNIX traditionally doesn't have a sink I
owe support a sink io is in Panther
we've done a major revision and and
passed through the administration
documentation so there's 12 new manuals
on administration there's I just
mentioned the IPV sex or IPSec support
for VPN on the client we have the mating
service provided bundled in with panther
server so you can have a complete VPN
solution with client and server so all
kinds of stuff in there but what I'd
like to do is focus on some of the major
pieces that are in there this is our
best server release ever over 50 new
features as i mentioned goats go to the
sessions who get
get the full dose of it so number one
automatic setup and Tom was mentioning
the nice part of what we do being that
you take your laptop out of the box and
it just sort of works out of the box
that it's very easy when you buy a
server or x-rays you kind of go through
we take you through the GUI tools to set
those things up very easily but what
happens if you have a whole rack of
these things or like one of our
customers i mentioned 190 of them well
you don't really want to go and wheel up
ahead attach it go through the GUI
conversation and get each one set up
individually so what do we do we now
have been pants or server the fastest
and easiest way to set up a rack of
servers and it works very simply
requires an iPod doesn't require an iPod
but you can use an ipod if there's any
managers close your ears you can this is
a great way to expense an iPod you have
to administer all you do is you create
using GUI to a server configuration
create that one load it onto the ipod
take the ipod connected through firewire
to the server turn on the server out of
the box so a virgin server never been
turned down before turn it on it will go
speak out the ipod configure all the
services that you need to configure on
that server and you're done configuring
now that will work fine if you've got a
rack like this you go set each one up
minimal intervention required what
happens when you really do have 190
servers well we do exactly the same
thing from LDAP directory so you
populate the LDAP directory with the
server configuration information and
that can actually be keyed to each
individual server if they're going to be
different you plug in the server turn it
on it automatically finds those records
in the LDAP directory configurate
confess it configures itself and you're
up and running so this is incredibly
ease of youth brought into the IT world
and the server environment really quick
second big feature open directory to now
open directory was in Jaguar but we have
taken that to the next level an open
directory to in Panther server includes
LDAP directory and kerberos
authentication it's ldap v2 or v3 and
we've taken it a step further we put
ldap on top of Berkeley DB so it's
scales thousands of records supported
but that's not that's not enough scaling
for it so we also added the ability to
support local replicas for high
availability so if one replica goes down
you can find the other replicas ldap
keeps running Kerberos also keeps
running and remote replicas so that you
can go and set up our remote replicas
and local and the geographic site can
serve up all the same information so
this is actually incredible
state-of-the-art scalability for both
ldap and kerberos i'll come back to the
importance of those two things in a
moment actually right now so one of the
biggest challenges actually I was
talking to a CIO who said one of their
biggest costs on their help desk with
people calling up because they forgot
their password and it's easy to find the
reason for this is that almost every
network service ends up requiring its
own password and so you have you have
two choices really either you can just
you know choose the same password for
every service on your network that's
incredibly insecure by the way and it's
frowned upon by any security expert
because if you crack into one server if
you cracked all the passwords but people
do that because there's really no other
easy choice the other thing you can do
is have a different you can force users
to have different passwords by enforcing
a password policy so they have to
actually choose different passwords for
every service that they sign on to of
course then you've left the user with
only one choice which is to write down
all their passwords and put it up on
their bulletin board which you can see
as you walk around
these places so what everyone is moving
to is single sign-on what a single
sign-on one password provides secure
access to all your services but it's
done in a secure way using Kerberos the
way this works the Kerberos server
authenticates the user on login they're
handed out a token actually a ticket
granting token and they can use that key
to log in and authenticate themselves to
any other service on the network so
Apple strategy here on the server is to
make sure every service we deploy is
Kerber eyes which is the deterrent
people use and likewise to make sure the
clients could access them on the client
art rubberized as well so Panther get
this I would say you know ninety-five
percent of the way there there might be
a few things we forgotten but we'll
quickly fix them in fact cancers not
shipping yet so let us know about things
that we've left out but that is I think
when you be incredibly important for any
enterprise deployment of of any software
really so we are well along that path
jboss application server jboss is widely
used to develop and deploy j2ee
applications in the industry it's been
something you could go it's an open
software project you can go and download
it and run it on the mac if you want to
we are going to actually package the
jboss application server with panther
server now what does that mean i'd say
somewhere between thirty forty percent
maybe fifty percent of people have been
exposed to j-pop boss because when
you're developing j2ee applications it
is really just so convenient you can
develop with jboss on a laptop you can
deploy it on weblogic you can deploy it
on ibm's application server any j2ee
application server you can kind of share
j2ee objects around between between
these different application servers now
if you want to put jboss on the mac
today there's a lot of work required
because a lot of integration has to
happen with Apache and with other things
so what we are doing with panther is we
are taking all of those pieces and
putting this together including tools
for managing jaypaw boss so can become a
deployment environment as well and we
are including with that a tool for
easily migrating there are slight
differences in how j2ee objects are
deployed between or ejbs are deployed
between different application servers we
have some tools for example to very
easily take a bj e jb and import that
into jboss automatically so there's
going to be a very slick set of tools
for anybody in the enterprise developing
j2ee applications like to talk about
mail server this with cancer we are
moving to the postfix mail server which
many agree is the most robust and
scalable open email solution on the
market today now we're not just putting
coast fixed in their post fix provides
SMTP support we're also including Cyrus
to support imap and pop and you'll
notice we have webmail and mailing list
for webmail we're using squirrel mail or
integrating in squirrelmail for mailing
lists we're integrating mailman right in
Panther server so you have a complete
mail solution
we are also integrating SSL for secure
email transport between client and
server server admin so we have had in
Jaguar some server admin tools some GUI
tools and as I mentioned before there's
also all the command line tools that
that you know and love but we've taken
that to the next level in Panther what
we've done is we can combine the server
setup and management tools with the
monitoring tools and let me take you
through give you a demo of that right
now you can go to machine number one
here okay what you're looking at is
server admin for Panther and over here
on the left would be listed all of your
computers and right now we're just
looking at one server but you could
imagine a whole list there of servers
and on the right here is a pain which
tells you information about that server
so which system is it's running it's
running Mac OS 10 10 dot 3 that's
Panther it tells you serial number etc I
can click through here and find out
here's all your system logs watchdog
logs software update logs all the logs
on that system information about the
network interface what what's mounted
information about cpu usage over time so
let's see if i can find out how long has
this server been up here okay so that's
when it came up about three hours ago
four hours ago I can look at network
traffic on that server and I can run
software update remotely so if I have
updates available from Apple I simply
check now those are downloaded updated
on the server now things get very
interesting if I click here I open up
this server and what I see are all of
the services that are available to run
on that server Apple filing protocol
open directory DNS running
fine fpp firewall which is the Berkeley
IP firewall application server which is
actually jboss mail Nath net food NFS
print quicktime streaming as though you
can manage so all of your services you
can manage from one place these blue
dots over here if the blue dot is on
that means that service is running if
the blue dot is off that service is
currently stopped so let's let's go take
a look at what we can do let's click on
web so what I'm really doing now is
managing the Apache web server from
Panthers server admin and Here I am
looking at where all the services stops
so requests per second is zero
throughput is zero I can look at all the
logs here's my apache logs that i know
and love graph the activity which is
zero settings etc now in settings let me
take you through a few of those here's
what i like which is here's all your
apache mods you can turn on a module
just by checking
[Applause]
site is incredibly easy so let's say I
want to set up a new website currently I
have the default domain on I say add I
give it a name let's say Oh cribble com
I haven't paid for that but someone else
owns a dar Trekkies but let's say let's
say Tribble com I say save and go back
and there it is now excluding there it's
not enabled so it's just kind of sitting
in wait I enable it by clicking here I
start the Apache web service by clicking
there Tribble com is now online it's
that simple Patsy handsome if I could go
to the actually the next thing I want to
talk about it some with three Samba
three is the next version of Samba after
Samba to the important thing about it is
that Apple is the first major vendor
going to be shipping Samba three samba
three is in cancer today the important
thing about one of the important things
about samba three is that allows you to
have a single place where you're serving
up file systems and printing to both
Windows users and to Mac servers and it
goes beyond that and that the mis
manager can manage a single rep record
and and Samba three can become a primary
Des Moines domain controller
now what does this mean this this means
that if I have a person in my shop who
needs to access both a windows machine
and a Mac machine they can have a single
login and password and a single file
home that they can use to store other
files so that when I go to the Mac
machine i use that same login and
password as they use on the Windows
machine all of my configuration
information is stored in that record the
manager only has to manage it in one
place and the user can access it from
one place incredibly convenient so Mac
os10 server for Panther over 50 new
features including automatic setup open
directory to single sign-on so you can
have a single password to get it all
your services everything Kerber eyes
both on the clients on the server jboss
the easiest way to deploy j2ee
applications on on mac postfix mail
server the most robust scalable open
source mail server around server admin
tools so out of the box configurability
and manageability and monitoring of all
of the services running on the server
and Samba three integrated in with
panther price 999 dollars for unlimited
users this is a big deal almost every
other operating system for servers you
buy out there comes with a per seat cost
we don't do that is 99 if you pay the
999 price you get unlimited users
software maintenance customers get it
automatically and all WWDC attendees get
a developer's preview so it's in your
bag you should have it please play with
it have fun thank you very much
you